---
id: S3
---

# S3 Wildlife ecology and conservation

::: tip

## Instructions

Lecture content can be accessed via the link emailed by the course lead. 

Relevant lectures are listed below, note that some have been omitted as not required for WildDrone.

:::

## Objectives
To provide interdisciplinary education for multiple PhDs with different scientific backgrounds, we will make use of a dedicated eLearning course on basic wildlife ecology (S3). The courses will enable targeted education to teach undeveloped skills (e.g., data science method for engineers). 

* **ECTS:** 3, 45 hours of work
* **Lead:** Frank Langevelde, WU

## Intended Learning Outcomes

Students will be able to:
1. understand basic concepts in ecology and biodiversity conservation, with a focus on wildlife ecology and conservation
2. explain the societal importance of biodiversity and wildlife species
3. evaluate threats to biodiversity and wildlife species, and suggest wildlife management and conservation strategies.

## Assessment

Consider how the topics covered impact your particular research aims. Write a critical summary describing how you will use concepts from at least three of the lectures to support your doctoral project. This should read well on its own but your writing could eventually end up as part of a paper or thesis. __(Guide: 3-pages at 12pt font, single-spaced)__.

* **Submission:** Upload to WildDrone Teams folder (details to follow).
* **Deadline:** TBC


## Lectures

1. (Not used)
2. (Not used)
3. (Not used)
4. Food webs
5. Competition & facilitation
6. Predation
7. Activity patterns
8. Adaptation to stress
9. Space use
10. Sociality & group living
11. Species diversity
12. Migration & movement.
 
### Wildlife Ecology & Conservation
1. Threats to biodiversity
2. (Not used)
3. (Not used)
4. Landscape modification, habitat loss and fragmentation
5. (Not used)
6. (Not used)
7. (Not used)
8. Species protection
9. Area protection
10. Population Viability Analysis
11. Understanding species distribution models
12. The human context part I
13. Limitations to distribution ranges
14. Landscape planning
15. Ecological restoration
16. The human context part II
17. Technology & Conservation
18. Rewilding